                                               Web designing assignment
                                                                 Term-1
                                                          Module (HTML) -1 

1.Are the HTML tags and elements the same thing?
Ans: Elements are not tags. some people refer to elements as tags (e.g. "the P tag"). remember that the elements is one thing, and the tag (be it start or end tag) is another.

2.what are tags and attributes in HTML?
Ans: Tags are used to mark up contect on a webpage and define the structure and meaning of the content they enclose. Attributes are used to modify the behaviour or appearance of an element or to provide additional information that cannot be conveyed through the elements contect alone.

3.what are void elements in HTML?
Ans: A void element is an elements whose content model never allows it to have contents under any circumstances. Void elements can have attributes. The following is a complete list of the void elements in HTML: area, base, col, br, command, embed, hr, img, input etc.

4.what are HTML entities?
Ans: HTML entities are the reserved characters that are used in the HTML document. They are not present in your standard keyboard.

5.what are the different types and lists in HTML?
Ans: unorderes lists, ordered list, and description list.

6.what is the 'class' attributes in HTML?
Ans: The class attribute specifies one or more classnames for an element. The class attributes is mostly used to point to a class in a style sheet.

7.what is the difference between the 'id' attribute and the 'class' attribute of HTML elements?
Ans: The difference between them is 'id' is unique in a page and can only apply to at most one element, while 'class' selector can apply to multiple elements.

8.what are the various formatting tags in HTML?
Ans: <b> bold text 
        <strong> important text
        <i> italic
        <em> emphasized text
        <mark> marked text
        <small>smaller text
        <del> deleted text
        <ins> inserted text
       <sub> subscript text
       <sup> superscript text

9.how is cell padding different from cell spacing?
Ans: Cell padding is used to create a border around the content area of a web page, whereas cell spacing is used for positioning elements within that area.

10.how can we club two or more rows or columns into a single row or column in an HTML table?
Ans: you can merge two or more table cells in a column by using the colspan attribute in a HTML tag.

11.what is the difference between a block-level element and an inline element?
Ans: Block elements always start nfrom a new line. Inline elements never start from a new line. Block elements cover space from left ton right as far as it can go. Inline elements only cover the space as bounded by the tags in the HTML element.

12.how to create a hyperlink in HTML?
Ans: The <a> tag defines a hyperlink, which is used to link from one page to another. The most important attribute of the <a> element is the href attribute, which indicated the link's destination. By default, link will appear as follows in all browsers: An unvisited link is underlined and blue.

13.what is the use of an iframe tag?
Ans: The <iframe> tag specifies an inline frame. An inline frame is used to embed another document within the current HTML  document.

14.what is the use of a span tag? explain with example?
Ans: Common uses of a span tad include changing the style or color of a part of the text, highlighting a section of text, and inserting icons or small graphics inline with text. Its also useful for applying javascript actions to specific parts of inline content.

15.how to insert a picture into a background image of a webpage?
Ans: open the HTML file in text editor: Within the starting <body> tag in your html file, type <body background= " "> give the path of the image we want to add.

16.how are active links different from normal links?
Ans: A normal link is just a line of code that contains a pointer to another resource. An active link is that line of code in action, opening that other resources.

17.what are the different tags to separate sections of text?
Ans: <br> tag it is used to separate the line of text. it breaks the current line and shifts the flow of the text to a new line.
<p> tag this tag is used to write a paragraph of text.
<blockquote> tag this tag is used to define large quoted sections.

18.what is SVG?
Ans: SVG stands for scalable vector graphics. SVG is used to define vector based graphics for the web. SVG defines graphics in XML format. Each element and attribute in SVG files can be animated.

19.what is difference between HTML and XHTML?
Ans: HTML and XHTML are both markup languages used for creating and displaying web pages. The main difference between them is the syntax and structure; HTML is more lenient in its syntax, while XHTML has a more strict syntax and follows XML rules.

20.what are logical and physical tags in HTML?
Ans: In HTML the formatting tags are divided into two categories: physical tag: These tags are used to provide the visual appearance to the text. Logical tag: these tags are used to add some logical or semantic value to the text. 

